---
layout: post
title: 'Generating Random numbers in a fragment shader on mobile'
---

One of the things I hope to try out with this blog is to include brief programming experiments, whether in javascript or webgl. 

Realising that webgl is supported in all main desktop browsers and most mobile browsers I thought I would try a shader experiment to show as the header for this blog. What I thought I would try is a random mash of pixilated color that would change, similar to what star citizen has on the splash screen for their browser map.

The idea was to run entirely in the fragment shader and to just use a simple one liner to generate random numbers and to not have any textures that would need downloading.

This all worked fine until I tested this in chrom on my phone where I just got a blank screen. Verifying that there was no compilation issues I soon found out that the issues is that GLES does not guarantee highp precision and that mediump may be as low as 10 bit significand. 10 binary bits leads to only about 3 digits or -1024 to 1024.

The devices I was testing on were using a mali400 which only supports 10 bits for the fragment shader. A newer device supported the full 24bits. 

The code I was using was the following.

The issues are the one liner I was using uses many bits. Multiplying a number by a large amount and then getting the fraction was just resulting in zero.

Another issue is that I was counting milliseconds and so after 1024 milliseconds (aka 1 second) precision was being lost.

My simple experiment was turning into something much more complicated.

My solution was a follows, use 2 floats to store the time, split into seconds and milliseconds. This still limits seconds and isses may be seen on mobile systems after 15 minutes but the issues st=hould start small.

Second was to modify the number generator I had to only use low numbers but have a large enough period to not be noticeable. 
